when esoteric religion is somehow behind
in the background that has it had an
impact on so many changes I'll share a
personal view right now which is I can
see the October rebellion focusing very
much on a people's coup if you like a
people's takeover of democracy if it
continues in the UK to be so awesomely
shambolic and showing itself in in
literally a state of collapse and I
would argue underneath that is what we
might call the sacred it might not be
the language that works for everybody it
needs to be a language that works for
you whether you're atheist or whatever
it may feel that it has a spiritual
perspective but I'm essentially talking
about love and the consciousness that
we're running in our brains ultimately
and there's lots of evidence from the
science actually there is a oneness a
connection of energy between us and that
there could be an actual purpose to life
itself that you could see your life if
you have connection to your ancestors
and then thinking about the next seven
generations that your life has an
inherent purpose within that flow of
life and to you know a capitalist
consumerist society is very much wanting
to disconnect us from that lots of brain
sciences suggesting that when we're more
in our right brains than our left brain
so look up Ian McGilchrist
work for example the master in his
emissary that we have a deeper
connection to the oneness and I want to
just speak very briefly to something
controversial I've been speaking about
psychedelic medicines they're not for
everybody they've been part of my path
and they very much speak to me in terms
of access to these processes they need
to be used in really safe and healthy
ways if anybody is using them there's
lots of information out there on reset
on me they are not exile doesn't have a
position on them there's but there's
lots of science regarding their use and
how people become more nature connectors
as a result and there is also a deep
indigenous tradition on them that is
part of people's spiritual practice and
that is a it's an assault on freedom not
to be able to do those prac
[Music]
so that's why I've spoken to it and it's
because I think it's so central to this
theory of change for many of us this is
not something you have to sort of
believe in and be a hippie around that
there is that possibility at least I'm
suggesting to be open to it that love is
underneath what really matters to us so
then when we think about how things
change you can look at it in a
two-by-two matrix and I based this on
the work of mica right white he was a
person that was part of the Occupy
movement and again I'm not talking about
wofully woowoo stuff I'm just talking
about the right aspects that we're not
necessarily fully cognizant of but there
is science out there talking in that way
I personally believe that science and
spirituality are on their way to City to
unification but that's a personal view
it's worth mentioning that ways sang in
reviewing a lot of revolutionary
movements noted that the things that
really help in them are obviously being
well organized and our systems are
really helping us with that and
obviously always need improving it's
also about aspects of charisma that come
through in our movements and I think
that's really important how we all show
up in our leadership and bring our true
selves forwards and that our hearts and
our vulnerability and our love and I
think authenticity and I think that's
what charisma is about for me and then
the other bit is when esoteric religion
is somehow behind in the background that
has it had an impact on so many changes
Wow Wow Wow yeah yeah the section that's
about asserting our collective will the
actual technical term for it is called
volunteerism that's when we tackle the
pillars of this system so the pillars
the the fake democracy the destructive
economy the toxic media there's there's
also then what's called subjectivism
which is the idea that you won't really
make these changes at the system's level
if we don't change our
selves we don't change how the system's
showing up in us and that's really about
that patriarchal scarcity separation and
powerlessness and then there's another
piece that gets more esoteric that's
called Theor jism it's the idea that
there could be divine intervention
sounds a bit mental I know and I was
feeling as a scientist about odd saying
that but I do have a personally I put
the spiritual practice of prayer and I
think you can also talk about it just
from the perspective of you know how it
feels for you your own consciousness the
better part of yourself what it means
like what it means to be in touch with
sacredness what meaning is there in your
life what purpose how you are feeling a
vision being lifted up by this movement
how do we change ourselves you know this
system is inners and so really we're
talking about ways of tackling the
patriarchal wounds I just want to say
how important it is that we're looking
our selves you know in what we're
bringing forward I used to talk to a lot
of people who were deeply involved with
Eastern spirituality with Buddhism
occasionally Hinduism so on Buddhism of
different schools and they'd make
similar lofty and vague claims about how
deeply committed they were to practicing
the Dharma as if their head were on fire
changing the world saving the planet but
you know when it came to really simple
practical implementation of those
ethical values in their daily lives when
it came to the challenge of eating a
vegan diet for example they just give up
they just quit
they wouldn't even try and these
imbeciles the leaders of extinction
rebellion are extremely hypocritical
examples of this because they're not
merely unnerving
they're not merely non vegan they're
openly anti-vegan while leading this
supposedly revolutionary ecological
movement quote I'm starting in the
middle here I strongly oppose the
religious bit and that we all have
energy and the esoteric bullsh
I think it's weird that dr. broad Brooke
isn't vegan she talks about love she
talks about the destruction of our
environment which will put huge stress
in society once the weather gets worse
and food gets scarce blah blah blah
shell studs both subjectivism which
means changing ourselves yeah but only
in a vague sense not actually refusing
to eat mince pie not actually refusing
to eat sausages or refusing to kill a
sheep to eat its blood and so no no no
not giving up dairy milk and cheese no
no just you know inner inner
transformation right right right
and I guess as a leader you in this case
have to be the best role model possible
to come across as a credible and strong
person who believes in what she or he is
preaching in a qat from June 2019
dr. broad Brook states that these days I
feel that my relationship with eating
animals is meant to be limited and based
in deep gratitude so playing devil's
advocate here she doesn't change her own
behavior given the environmental impact
of animal food products I'm paraphrasing
slightly given that killing conscious
beings isn't consistent with
quote-unquote having a lot of love for
others yeah raises a lot of questions
about what this [ __ ] philosophy
means in practice or whether or not she
can live up to any of her own principles
either on the ecological side or on the
more vague compassionate side stop
telling me quote-unquote veganism won't
solve anything and that the capitalist
system must be overthrown am I supposed
to believe that the people who refuse to
change what they eat for breakfast are
interested in changing the world
question mark shut the [ __ ] up you ate
over throwing [ __ ] well-said DS
anonymous commentator wherever you are
shout out to D s a nots of vision that
is universally known about
here for the Jewish faith is Tikun Olam
in Africa is talked about as a bun - you
know and there's a be lots of ways the
vision sensing team led by Skeena
Rathore can bring that through in
multiple of languages and cultural
relevant ways that's in by asking people
from different cultures to write that
how they feel there is something more
mystical that happens behind the scenes
which is that people hold prayers and
you know again scientifically you can
think about is it's potentially that
there is an inherent purpose in the
universe and doesn't matter if there
isn't it if there is it's worth having
to go isn't it right that's how I see it
this is about asking for help you know
and it maybe just helps with a different
bit of your brain there's some great
science of neuroplasticity for example
so if you do a ritual or some ceremony
or something like that it follows the
stages of it follows the same stages
that neuroplasticity science says you
should do if you want to change your
brain so this idea that you would say
like you know I'm intending for this
action to go really well to say it's a
group intention together and really ask
for help for that there's something here
about meaning of our own lives about our
own hero's journey it's called the
monomyth that context that we have in
our lives between our ancestors and
those that come after ism unhooking
yourself in this system either by arrest
or by really supporting that process for
the people that says we disobey this
system because it's [ __ ] us over
right and then this the move towards
teal consciousness and connection to to
oneness - you know is in the physics
basically this idea that you know
whether you if you're looking at at
m-theory i'm not upon all or all the
latest physics but I'm not a hero I'm
not a guru what what what yeah
please don't worship me no one is a
savior of this movement yeah it's not
like some whoa whoa hippy thing again so
without going into it in great detail
you know that
it we can be running many layers of this
consciousness throughout the given day
to the tea on there with the turquoise
layer right now and as you can ask
people questions on their honors on it
apparently on a you know a questionnaire
to figure out what what bits people are
holding and the hope none of this sounds
for the arrogant or superior that I'm
talking about consciousness levels but
needing to come together to rewire
humanity you know so again it needs to
be from that to your consciousness
that's not in opposition I don't know if
I when a grown-up conversation to say
this isn't working for us what do we
need to do differently
[Music]